# EchoFern

EchoFern is a simple Haskell software for turning custom 2D polygons into simple fractals.
Through only a few clicks, you can see your very own fractal in a variety of colors. 

## Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
    - [Git](#git)
    - [Stack](#stack)
- [Instructions](#instructions)
    - [Controls](#controls)
    - [Limitations](#limitations)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)

## Installation

### Git

Upon [installing git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git), this repository can be cloned using the following command at the desired directory:

```
git clone https://github.com/ThayerAckerman/EchoFern.git
```

### Stack

EchoFern uses [Haskell Stack](https://docs.haskellstack.org/en/stable/) to manage dependencies and project development.
To create and execute the program, run the commands below:

```
stack build
stack exec EchoFern-exe
```

## Instructions

To make your very own fractal, start by creating the edges of your base polygon.
The blue base edge should be towards the bottom of your polygon and the recurse edges can be anywhere you like.
Recurse edges should usually be smaller than the base edge, otherwise the shape will grow exponentially.
The fractal is generated by copying the base polygon and matching these children polygons' base edges with the parent polygon's recurse edges.

### Controls

- Begin creating the base polygon by clicking anywhere in the window
- Each additional click will create a new edge
- A plain edge can be created by left clicking, displayed in black
- A recurse edge can be created by right clicking, displayed in red
- The base edge is displayed in blue
- While creating the polygon, you can undo any edge placement by pressing backspace / delete

- Once the polygon is ready, press enter to begin generating the fractal
- To undo a level of the fractal, press backspace / delete
- Continue to press backspace / delete, to return to creating the polygon

- To change the color of the fractal, press space
- To pan the window, use the arrow keys
- To zoom in / out use the '+' and '-' keys
- Exit the program with the 'esc' key

### Limitations

- Due to the current triangulation algorithm, the polygon will not generate correctly if the base edge is above other edges, attempt to keep the base edge below other edges
- There is no limit to how many levels of the fractal you can generate; be careful, as you may crash the program
- There is currently no way to save or load shapes that you have created

## Acknowledgments

The EchoFern software was created by Thayer H. Ackerman

Special thanks to Dr. Andrew Polonsky and Dr. Sarah Greenwald for helping me learn Haskell and linear algebra!

Triangulation algorithm made by Firas Zaidan
